---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "truenas_user Data Source - truenas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Use this data source to get information about an specific user.
---

# truenas_user (Data Source)

Use this data source to get information about an specific user.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `uid` (Number) The User ID (UID) is a unique number used to identify a Unix user.
- `username` (String) String used to uniquely identify the user on the server.

### Read-Only

- `api_keys` (List of Number) The IDs of the existing API keys for the user.
- `builtin` (Boolean) If true, the user account is an internal system account for the TrueNAS server.
- `email` (String) Email address of the user.
- `full_name` (String) Comment field to provide additional information about the user account. Typically, this is the full name of the user or a short description of a service account.
- `group` (Number) The user's primary group Unix group GID.
- `groups` (List of Number) List of additional groups to which the user belongs.
- `home` (String) The local file system path for the user account's home directory.
- `id` (String) This is the API identifier for the user.
- `immutable` (Boolean) If true, the account is system-provided and most fields related to it may not be changed.
- `last_password_change` (Dynamic) The date of the last password change for local user accounts.
- `local` (Boolean) If true, the account is local to the TrueNAS server. If false, the account is provided by a directory service.
- `locked` (Boolean) If set to true the account is locked. The account cannot be used to authenticate to the TrueNAS server.
- `password_age` (Number) The age in days of the password for local user accounts.
- `password_change_required` (Boolean) Password change for local user account is required on next login.
- `password_disabled` (Boolean) If set to true password authentication for the user account is disabled.
- `roles` (List of String) List of roles assigned to this user's groups. Roles control administrative access to TrueNAS through the web UI and API.
- `shell` (String) The user local shell interpreter.
- `sid` (String) The Security Identifier (SID) of the user if the account an smb account. The SMB server uses this value to check share access and for other purposes.
- `smb` (Boolean) The user account may be used to access SMB shares.
- `ssh_password_enabled` (Boolean) Allow the user to authenticate to the TrueNAS SSH server using a password.
- `sshpubkey` (String) SSH public keys corresponding to private keys that authenticate this user to the TrueNAS SSH server.
- `sudo_commands` (List of String) A list of commands the user may execute with elevated privileges. User is prompted for password when executing any command from the list.
- `sudo_commands_nopasswd` (List of String) A list of commands the user may execute with elevated privileges. User is not prompted for password when executing any command from the list.
- `twofactor_auth_configured` (Boolean) If true, the account has been configured for two-factor authentication. Users are prompted for a second factor when authenticating to the TrueNAS web UI and API. They may also be prompted when signing in to the TrueNAS SSH server using a password (depending on global two-factor authentication settings).
- `userns_idmap` (Dynamic) Specifies the subuid mapping for this user. If DIRECT then the UID will be directly mapped to all containers. Alternatively, the target UID may be explicitly specified. If null, then the UID will not be mapped.
