---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "truenas_group Resource - truenas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Use this resource to create a new group in the TrueNAS server.
---

# truenas_group (Resource)

Use this resource to create a new group in the TrueNAS server.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Name of the group.

### Optional

- `gid` (Number) The Group ID (GID) is a unique number used to identify a Unix group. Enter a number above 1000 for a group with user accounts. If not set, TrueNAS will automatically assign with the next one available.
- `smb` (Boolean) If set to True, the group can be used for SMB share ACL entries. The group is mapped to an NT group account on the TrueNAS SMB server and has a sid value.
- `sudo_commands` (List of String) A list of commands that group members may execute with elevated privileges. User is prompted for password when executing any command from the list.
- `sudo_commands_nopasswd` (List of String) A list of commands that group members may execute with elevated privileges. User is not prompted for password when executing any command from the list.
- `userns_idmap` (Dynamic) Specifies the subgid mapping for this group. If DIRECT then the GID will be directly mapped to all containers. Alternatively, the target GID may be explicitly specified. If not set, then the GID will not be mapped.
- `users` (List of Number) A list a user IDs (UIDs) for local users who are members of this group.

### Read-Only

- `builtin` (Boolean) If True, the group is an internal system account for the TrueNAS server.
- `group` (String) Human-readable string to identify the group. Identical to the name key.
- `id` (String) This is the API identifier for the group.
- `local` (Boolean) If True, the group is local to the TrueNAS server. If False, the group is provided by a directory service.
- `roles` (List of String) List of roles assigned to this groups. Roles control administrative access to TrueNAS through the web UI and API.
- `sid` (String) The Security Identifier (SID) of the user if the account an smb account. The SMB server uses this value to check share access and for other purposes.
