---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "truenas_user Resource - truenas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Use this resource to create a new user in the TrueNAS server.
---

# truenas_user (Resource)

Use this resource to create a new user in the TrueNAS server.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `full_name` (String) Comment field to provide additional information about the user account. Typically, this is the full name of the user or a short description of a service account. There are no character set restrictions for this field. This field is for information only.
- `username` (String) String used to uniquely identify the user on the server. In order to be portable across systems, local user names must be composed of characters from the POSIX portable filename character set (IEEE Std 1003.1-2024 section 3.265). This means alphanumeric characters, hyphens, underscores, and periods. Usernames also may not begin with a hyphen or a period.

### Optional

> **NOTE**: [Write-only arguments](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments) are supported in Terraform 1.11 and later.

- `email` (String) Email address of the user.
- `group` (Number) The Unix group GID for the user's primary group. This is required if group_create is false.
- `group_create` (Boolean) If set to true, the TrueNAS server automatically creates a new local group as the user's primary group.
- `groups` (List of Number) List of additional groups to which the user belongs.
- `home` (String) The local file system path for the user account's home directory. Typically, this is required only if the account has shell access (local or SSH) to TrueNAS. This is not required for accounts used only for SMB share access.
- `home_create` (Boolean) If set to true, the TrueNAS server automatically creates a new home directory for the user in the specified home path.
- `home_mode` (String) Filesystem permission to set on the user's home directory.
- `locked` (Boolean) If set to true the account is locked. The account cannot be used to authenticate to the TrueNAS server.
- `password` (String, Sensitive, [Write-only](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments)) The password for the user account. This is required if random_password is not set.
- `password_disabled` (Boolean) If set to true password authentication for the user account is disabled. Users with password authentication disabled may still authenticate to the TrueNAS server by other methods, such as SSH key-based authentication. Password authentication is required for smb users.
- `random_password` (Boolean) If set to true, the TrueNAS server automatically generates a random 20 character password for the user.
- `shell` (String) The user local shell interpreter.
- `smb` (Boolean) The user account may be used to access SMB shares. If set to true then TrueNAS stores an NT hash of the user account's password for local accounts. This feature is unavailable for local accounts when General Purpose OS STIG compatibility mode is enabled. If set to true the user is automatically added to the builtin_users group.
- `ssh_password_enabled` (Boolean) Allow the user to authenticate to the TrueNAS SSH server using a password. The established best practice is to use only key-based authentication for SSH servers.
- `sshpubkey` (String) SSH public keys corresponding to private keys that authenticate this user to the TrueNAS SSH server.
- `sudo_commands` (List of String) A list of commands the user may execute with elevated privileges. User is prompted for password when executing any command from the list.
- `sudo_commands_nopasswd` (List of String) A list of commands the user may execute with elevated privileges. User is not prompted for password when executing any command from the list.
- `uid` (Number) The User ID (UID) is a unique number used to identify a Unix user. If not set, TrueNAS will automatically assign with the next one available.
- `userns_idmap` (Dynamic) Specifies the subuid mapping for this user. If DIRECT then the UID will be directly mapped to all containers. Alternatively, the target UID may be explicitly specified. If null, then the UID will not be mapped.

### Read-Only

- `api_keys` (List of Number) The IDs of the existing API keys for the user.
- `builtin` (Boolean) If true, the user account is an internal system account for the TrueNAS server.
- `id` (String) This is the API identifier for the user.
- `immutable` (Boolean) If true, the account is system-provided and most fields related to it may not be changed.
- `last_password_change` (Dynamic) The date of the last password change for local user accounts.
- `local` (Boolean) If true, the account is local to the TrueNAS server. If false, the account is provided by a directory service.
- `password_age` (Number) The age in days of the password for local user accounts.
- `password_change_required` (Boolean) Password change for local user account is required on next login.
- `roles` (List of String) List of roles assigned to this user's groups. Roles control administrative access to TrueNAS through the web UI and API.
- `sid` (String) The Security Identifier (SID) of the user if the account an smb account. The SMB server uses this value to check share access and for other purposes.
- `twofactor_auth_configured` (Boolean) If true, the account has been configured for two-factor authentication. Users are prompted for a second factor when authenticating to the TrueNAS web UI and API. They may also be prompted when signing in to the TrueNAS SSH server using a password (depending on global two-factor authentication settings).
